---
layout: post
title:  Quibbles
date: 2018-01-28 01:20:26 -0600
categories: Reflections
---

I need to learn about 'Message Forwarding and Method Swizzling' today, but I just have to share a few quotes I'm reading from what is becoming my favorite book so far.

_All the Light We Cannot See_ has captivated my imagination and attention. Anthony Doerr has a way with words that captures all senses succinctly to paint an imagery as if I'm there with the characters he's describing, living out the plot in real time as I read.

In the book, a young girl who became blind experiences the world the way she knows how: through sound logic, reason, and the ability to accept her fears and see the world her own way.

> "The faintly metallic smell of the falling snow surrounds her. _Calm yourself. Listen._" - Anthony Doerr

Too often I'm lost in the depths of my thoughts when all I need to do is take a deep breath, and take the next step forward. Here, Marie-Laure is learning how to walk with her cane. Every week her father challenges her to lead them home, and every week she gets a little better despite her frustrations and disbelief she can. Little by little, week after week she makes progress until she eventually and finds her way.

> "In another half second her father's hands are in her armpits, swinging her up, and Marie-Laure smiles, and he laughs a pure, contagious laugh, one she will try to remember all her life, father and daughter turning in circles on the sidewalk in front of their apartment house, laughing together while snow sifts through the branches above."

I've fallen in love with Marie-Laure. A little girl who has all the patience in the world it seems, with a loving father who is determined to stay by her side and give her the tools to live her life the way she can. Moments like these make me fill me with warm and fuzzies. The best moments.

> _"Open your eyes...and see what you can with them before they close forever."_ - Anthony Doerr

Here's to continuing to explore and learn; to keep plodding along. Despite the increasingly long hours I spend at work it's honestly so exciting to see how we breathe life into a product. I feel extremely grateful to be a part of the grueling process to make something that's so carefully researched and thought out. As for our deadline, we'll see whether we can make it. When our deadline is set won't determine what I'll accomplish. I can only control what I do every day - step after step, task after task, and how I challenge myself to move faster, improve, and learn more.
