---
layout: post
title: Day 3
date: 2019-02-01 19:20:26 -0600
categories: Reflections
---

"Tomorrow or the next day or the next month or maybe even next year (my personal record is nine years waiting for the second half of a refactoring), the insight comes. Either you understand why you were wrong, or you understand why you were right. In any case, the next step is clear. You take the step with the confidence you had when you started. Maybe you're even a little abashed at how stupid you could have been not to have seen it all along. Don't be. It happens to everyone." - Kent Beck

I'm currently reading through (or more accurately, attempting to read through) "Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code." The reasons for why is I can recognize when code is beautiful, but I can't figure out what makes code beautiful. I can grasp the over-arching concepts of readability, scoping, hiding information other classes or functions shouldn't need to know, ease of adding to or flexibility of the code's core foundation.

My questions here are how do people typically read technical books? This book, while great and gives solid and sound advice, is so super dense that I can't help but feel I'm not getting all of what I should be out of what is being taught and explained.

"I think my career and the way I do things—the one word that kind of sums it up is “exploring.” I love exploring the edges—of ideas, of projects, and the physical earth, whatever it is—people too—and that I find very exciting.
But there’s a flip side in that I’m a starter, not a finisher. I get attracted to new things. The field of compilers was just a marvelous field because the computers continued to present challenges. And the problems being solved continued to be increasingly challenging." - Fran Allen

Leaving this post as is and unresolved, but actively working to improve this by just coding and reading more code.
